# Get-and-Clean-Data-Week-4
# Breif of the scripts
Initially, the scripts load in a useful package, i.e. dplyr, also reshape2 is loaded in case it will be needed

First step is load in all the train and test data sets, using "read.table()" function. At the same time, variables names and activity labels are also loaded in using the same function

Second, the names extracted from the "feature" file are adjusted using "make.names()" function. This is to ensure that no duplicated names appears. Since if there are any duplicated names, some functions in dplyr can't be used. The unique names, which will be used to name all the variables are assigned to a new variable called "valid_names"

Third, use "cbind()" function to combine suject, activity and the 561 variables in test and train dataset, named as "test_df" and "train_df" respectively. the "valid_names" are assigned to the column names of both datasets. Then, call "cbind()" again to combine these 2 newly developed data frames to form the integrated dataset required by this practice, named as "df".

Create a function called "setActivity()" to label the 6 activities based on the number 1-6, taking use of "which()" function.

Use "sapply()" to compute mean and standard deviation of each column.

Use "group_by()" to group "df" by subject and activity, which results in 180 different groups (6x30).

Use "summarise_if()" or "summarise_at()" function to build a new tidy dataset based on selected columns to show the average value of each variable of each subject and each type of activity. Note in the scripts, "summarise_if()" is used. Therefore a logical vector should be generated first, which is sent to the function as a parameter.

# Code book of the scripts
train_x: a data frame that contains values of 561 variables of train data;

train_y: a vector that contains the returned activity value of train data;

train_sub: a vector that indicates the experiment subject of train data;

test_x: a data frame that contains values of 561 variables of test data;

test_y: a vector that contains the returned activity value of test data;

test_sub: a vector that indicates the experiment subject of test data;

feature: a data frame that contains the 561 features' names for both train and test data;

ini_names: character vector that contains the 561 features' names extracted from "feature";

valid_names: character vector that contains all unique names for the 561 features;

train_df: combined data frame of train_x, train_y and train_sub;

test_df: combined data frame of test_x, test_y and test_sub;

df: combined dataset of train_df and test_df;

input: temporary variable by extracting "activity" from "df";

setActivity: function used to assign activity labels;

data_mean: vector that contains average values of each column in "df";

data_std: vector that contains standard deviation of each column in "df";

df_group: a data frame generated by grouping "df";

create_tidy: a function used to create a logical vector for "summarise_if()" function;

tidy_df: tidy data frame that show average values of each variable of each group according to "df_group";
